Hello, hello, hello from Meltdown Convicts in Hollywood, California.
Harmontown is now in session.
Please welcome to the stage the mayor of Harmontown,
and Harmontown.
Thank you.
I've been kind of haunted by when Dino was on the show
and he kind of watched the show through his eyes
and at one point he's like,
why are these people here?
Why do they come here?
It was a valid question.
So now I'm kind of like,
I'm back to my old nervous self,
like I want to put on a good show.
So that's probably a good energy to be in, right?
That's good. Always be prepared to give people what they want.
It was just not to say that I don't have anything to talk about.
So we adopted a, Aaron and I adopted a new dog.
Our therapist then told us we had adopted a grief dog,
because we had adopted it moments after our friend OD.
And I didn't do the math until that moment.
I was like, I guess we have a grief dog.
I guess this wasn't a responsible decision.
But we got this little tiny dog through some rescue service
from some guy that found it in a box on the street or whatever.
And it's like this little mix of terrier
and a bunch of other things that make it not breathe properly
but snore adorably.
It's smaller than my cat,
but it won't stop humping Harvey.
And it loves Harvey,
and it's like Harvey loves it and they're very happy together.
And then it's just like, there's nothing,
why are dogs humping things so funny to us?
As primates, we're the most awkward humpers
you would think in the animal kingdom.
Other animals are kind of designed to do that.
But then when you look at a little dog humping a big dog's elbow
and they're like the expression on their face
when they're looking at anything other than...
I think it's because we're kind of Heisenberg-ing that experiment.
They're looking at you generally.
You're in the room and they kind of make weird eye contact with you
while they're humping you.
And that's no fun for anybody.
So anyways, he's a little guy and he's not...
Were you motivated?
Did you say we should go rescue a dog in your grief
or did that dog come to you somehow?
No, I feel like I, a long time ago,
was like Harvey should have a companion
because I think that he's a livable guy
and we get a lot out of him,
but I also feel like every time he encounters another dog,
he's so happy.
It's just the thought of when we left the house,
if there was another dog there that you could hang out with,
it was just very cartoonish thinking.
And then there was also that karmic thinking of,
we got Harvey from a breeder.
He's our little buttermilk, silver spoon,
little biological child that we bred
with our little white penis parts.
And I always, I was always like,
we gotta go get ourselves a fucking, you know,
a little scrapper to make up for it.
It's a grief and a guilt dog at the same time.
Yeah, it's a guilt dog on behalf of the animal lovers of the world,
like the people that would otherwise say,
you killed a dog when you brought Harvey home.
So is anybody currently at home with those dogs right now,
or is it just a giant dog fuckfest going on?
Well, we're crate training Nigel,
which is the name of our little Nigel.
We're crate training him.
Is there an origin story for the name of Nigel?
No, I just, we were trying to,
we were gonna go with Willem because he looks like Willem Dafoe,
but I don't know, I just, we were getting in the car
and then I just instinctively kind of called him Nigel
as I was like, come here Nigel and whatever.
It's become a morning show.
Our show's a morning show now.
Soon we'll have equipment, I'll bring up photos,
I'll show you my dog photos,
and then maybe I'll have a baby by then
and I'll bring up that.
I'm not saying no one's pregnant.
I think it's famous New England clam chatter.
Mr. Nibbles is coming out,
but I'm very excited about our guest.
I was just, I was talking to him in the green room
and it just turned into the show.
I skipped through the green room because I was a little bit late
and didn't have time, but just managed to see our guest
and I'm very excited.
I always have a rule, like I try not to talk to the guest,
like I just stare at them and fold my arms.
I don't talk to them, like if they're coming in,
because I'm a bad interviewer and a bad,
so I want whatever energy I have,
like whatever I want to talk to them about,
I don't want to have to like,
but I just started talking to them about all the stuff.
So no show tonight and it's bad.
If you see us talking about anything interesting,
it's the second time through.
All the answers are prepared.
My enthusiasm for this guy is like many, many, many layers.
But I think we should just bring him out right away.
I don't think I have anything to talk about.
I'm miserable at work. I'm trying very hard to make season 6 good.
Why don't we talk about that for a little moment?
Why don't you unburden yourself of that just to get things...
I'm just very behind schedule. It's all my fault.
I just, from the very get-go,
they finally gave me enough rope to hang myself.
I don't have anybody to complain about.
I have this giant corporation in Yahoo that just loves the show.
They're going to advertise the fuck out of it.
Everything is beautiful and wonderful.
Everyone's on my side and so, of course, I'm going to self-destruct.
Is it as simple as you don't have an enemy above you
that you dislike and hate and fear?
I believe that's the case.
I think that I need to feel like I'm supposed to clean my room
so that me not cleaning my room is entertainment.
But now this is just going to be a show about a dirty room.
It's not going to make any sense.
Why did you clean up your room?
I don't know.
No, it's not that bad.
I'm just worried about it all the time.
I don't have anything to gauge it by.
Aren't you always behind schedule and worried at the same time?
I think it's unprecedented this time.
Just the first episode, I was like,
I put us way behind schedule the first episode.
It wasn't like I knew how to do the first episode.
It was like I didn't and then I just kept delaying that.
So everything is just delayed all the time.
Is it like Tootsie where people are getting pages?
Yeah, it's exactly like Tootsie.
Before you finish your question,
in any way that you could mean that, it's exactly like Tootsie.
I've never seen Tootsie. I don't know.
Tootsie is based on a soap opera.
And we do shoot community right now is being shot like a soap opera.
Yes, there are these actors who have these characters that they understand
that come in and they do not know what they're doing
and they're handed pages for the next scene
and they look at them and they learn them during rehearsal.
And I mean, they should all get Emmys relative to that.
So should the prop master who then goes,
oh, so a giant phone then?
Asshole!
And I'm like, yeah, sorry, I just typed it.
And I was like, I'll start with the big phones
and see how I can make them bigger.
And she goes in back and she comes out with a giant phone an hour later
and everyone's great and they all hate me
because if I gave them more time with material,
they would be able to do their jobs as good as they are.
The prop masters are unbelievable in their ability too.
You at the last second to rewrite something and it just appear on set.
It's unreal how they do that.
And the people that make the pants and the people that make the hats,
two departments that you didn't know were different,
constantly feuding with each other.
Within the wardrobe department, there's the pants department, the hat department,
and pages will come in and I'll purposely antagonize them by saying something like,
he has a large, trouser-shaped hat.
Because I just like to watch him.
No, that's not true.
But everybody that works on that show should get a medal of honor
and I should be shot in the face
and my blood should be scraped into a vial and sent to a lab
so we can figure out a way to block my DNA from ever reoccurring in television
because all I do is hurt people.
Thank you.
It was the one time when I was fishing for something.
And it only kind of trickled in.
They were like, here, if this is going to...
They were like, we agree, go on.
And they're like, well, if you're not going to go on, oh.
All right, got it.
Okay, well, anyways, let's...
But yeah, so I just like, you know, I'm trying to...
So you got directors coming in because I had dinner with Bobcat the night before he...
for a table read and he knew that the next day there was no script.
I was just starting to cut his episodes, great.
Yeah, but he was saying like, so like, I've never really done this before.
The table reads tomorrow, there's no script.
I said, there might not be a table.
Like, you might walk in and they're building a table for you.
And he goes, for me, that's kind of how I make my movies.
Like, I don't like to know everything in advance.
He goes, this seems like perfect for me.
I said, I think it will be then.
It's a great episode. He did a great episode.
They're all great episodes. It's a great show.
It's the best show on TV. It's not even on TV.
I just have to go through this.
It's just, there's nobody telling me what to do.
So you look at it and you're like, well, that's how you're going to end it?
With Leonard just taking a shit?
Oh, all right.
Soilers.
What would you rather have?
You haven't seen what he ate.
What would you rather have next time if you had to do another season or another show?
Would you rather have a Robertson Mech is breathing down your neck
or a nice cable network not breathing down your neck?
No, I think, I continue to enjoy TV.
I just think, I think that, I think what I definitely need is like,
because Chris McKenna is like my right hand man
and like the guy who makes everything really funny, like has a lot of passion.
He's not like, it's not like I'm Picasso and he's like a guy that makes Picasso possible.
That's not like he's a frame fetcher.
I don't know who did what for Picasso.
But he's like, he's like unequal and a partner creatively.
He just cares about the show in different ways,
but he's like very funny, funnier than me and like always come up with these ideas.
It's just he and I like making the show together as partners
and what there isn't is like a liaison between us and the suits and the production.
What we need is like kind of a third guy that's just like, hey, it's me, Eugene.
And I'm like, oh, Eugene, it's like, need help with that funny script?
I'm like, sure, Eugene, you're a hilarious writer.
But first, could you check in with the line producer about those giant phones?
That's what we need.
And also, oh, Sony's calling, hey, Eugene, you take that one.
Give your comedy a break for a second.
Go take the Sony call.
We need Eugene.
So what was that person's name on the last version?
Uh, nice try.
Everyone takes a little bit of the Eugene role here and there.
So it's all too much paradise there?
Everyone's Picasso and there's nobody yelling at you and it's just too easy?
And coupled with the fact that any actual grown-up work that has to be done,
it's either me or Chris doing it, neither of us.
That's not our wheelhouse, that's not where we're best used.
We don't want to talk on the phone to anybody about marketing or keeping the trains running.
But we have to.
We're happy to do so, but then we are behind schedule.
So that's my lesson.
I would like to do more TV, but I need to find a fall guy.
I need to find a guy that's like...
Like more of the type A person that likes the minutiae, likes the detail work?
Yeah, one of these guys that's kind of happy to not be funny or something, I don't know,
that's sort of like, I just like being around the magic.
You guys are crazy.
What were you smoking?
Wait, what are you smoking?
If you call Human Resources, I'll fucking kill you.
Go back in your office, Eugene, and talk to Sony.
We just need somebody.
That seems like a dream job for a lot of people that aren't that talented but would love to be around them.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of those guys out there.
I think we have a few in the crowd, they just tapped.
And I wouldn't mind being that guy pretty soon.
I'm kind of that guy on Rick and Morty a little bit, just Justin's so insane.
I just stay in the writer's room and work on scripts, but Justin's a maniac.
So I'm just kind of like, hey, you heard the man making about turds.
Anyways, actually, that's not true at all.
Justin does everything related to production, so that's not even a good analogy at all.
I'm just kind of like the head writer on Rick and Morty.
Who cares?
We came to the show called Harmontown, we care.
Shut up.
You should care more about our guests tonight.
Let's bring them up and start.
Oh, what is this?
Were you in the hospital recently?
Oh, that's right, I'm dying.
What is this from?
Oh, this is from Harris' memorial.
Humblebrag.
That's worth noting in the diary of our lives.
They had a really wonderful memorial at the Upright Citizens Brigade New Space,
which on paper I would just have thought, I don't want to go to this, but Aaron,
I knew Aaron would want to be there, and I was like, I'm going to go.
Also, I should be there, but I wouldn't have gone, do you know what I mean?
But I'm glad I did, because it really hit you with the importance of a memorial service.
It was just a flood of stories about a person that is gone now.
It was like, you're just laughing the whole time.
It was just like, what an amazing guy, and it really helped a tone somehow.
I don't know, just squeezed you out a little bit.
There's a lot of people walking around kind of shell-shocked,
and then you listen to these stories, and it just works.
I don't get it.
I guess the Neanderthals invented it, the idea of a funeral, so why are we questioning?
Why did I think it wasn't a good idea to go?
But it was nice, and I have a bracelet on from it.
Were you afraid that because it was a comedy thing, that it might not be sincere?
I was afraid of social anxieties being around people, first of all.
I don't understand death, and I'm afraid of it and coping with it.
I don't know how to talk to people under normal circumstances.
I don't know how to small talk.
There is no such thing as small talk at a memorial.
My usual path through conversation to avoidance of small talk
is to talk about whatever is really going on.
Whatever is really going on is not a fucking safe area at a memorial
because you don't know, if you're talking to a Parks and Rec guy,
you can't be presumptuous about how grief-stricken someone must be.
You're trying to calculate how hard did this person get hit,
and what right do I have to say anything.
I don't want to think about stuff like that.
I have to think about stuff like that too much, just normally.
The therapist said, don't think about that stuff.
Just speak in truths that cannot be, just bring some Kleenex.
Be the Kleenex guy and say, no matter how ridiculous it sounds,
and no matter how repetitive it sounds, this is terrible.
Really? This is terrible?
You're supposed to say that at a function?
But I tried doing it.
It worked on Adam Scott.
That's when I really leaned into it.
I remember it was Adam Scott, and I said, this is terrible.
And he's like, yeah, it is. This is hair.
I felt like he did appreciate it.
And I was like, okay, this is awful. This is terrible.
And Adam Scott was like, okay, you can stop now.
But yeah, it was great. It was a great celebration.
Did he have to speak?
No, of course not. No, no.
I was just there to, like, Aaron was close to him.
Rob was very close to him.
I knew Harris.
I didn't realize how close, my close friends were to him.
I just met him a handful of times.
I didn't realize how tight he and Rob were,
and other friends of mine.
Yeah.
It was a pretty, I would, no exaggeration.
Like, if you named a person that we knew,
I would, without knowing, I would bet that they knew him.
He was just kind of everywhere.
I forgot that he's saying at Rob's wedding with Sarah and Paul.
Yeah.
I thought your little, I guess if it was a eulogy that you did the last show,
it was very...
Well, that was my anger phase.
There are other people that are bargaining that was me being angry
at, like, anti-drug people.
And now I'm getting towards acceptance,
which is, like, the scariest thing in the world
because you don't want somebody to be dead.
So, all right, let's, now that we've warmed up the stage for,
for Booger.
My affection for this guy is unparalleled.
I've been so excited about having him on the show for so long.
Even if only it was because he had been such an indelible presence
in so many formative movies when we were growing up,
so many reasons that I'm out here in this city.
But also, just now, in the modern world,
he's also doing some work I admire because he's the executive producer
and he's executive producing, like, one of the only kind of
semi-honest reality shows that's on TV
that we can talk about a little bit.
So, let's bring him out. Curtis Armstrong is here.
Take any of those, yeah, wherever you're comfortable.
Hello.
Thanks for playing me in.
Yeah, well, we had to kind of brighten the mood
after that last 10 minutes.
Yeah, I know. I was really getting sad back there.
You were supposed to listen.
No, it's okay.
Well, it's just, you know, oh, my.
You didn't happen to know Harris Wittels, did you?
I did not. I never worked with him. I never met him even.
Uh, yeah, it was, it was, it was, yeah, whatever.
Man, I, well, it's, it's like, uh,
just stories from him in the writer's room being said
at a memorial. That's like when it hits home because it's like,
you're in an audience of workaholics,
like, so everyone spends 16 hours a day in a certain environment
and then you're hearing about this guy who kind of shot through that environment
and like, it just raises all these questions about what the fuck are we doing,
which is, which was a common theme.
And I think Matt Besser, who went up early on who like,
who's a renowned curmudgeon and, you know, um, uh,
but he really like, it was the perfect eulogy for anybody,
let alone somebody that he, you could have, you could have taken it
and put it in, in any, uh, wake and it would have been very inspiring,
but it was really apropos to, to this guy that, that passed.
But it was all about that concept of what was this thing that made them special
that we didn't notice when they were around and now that they're gone,
what, what, you know, just how can this person live within us and can we,
and it really, like it was really taken with all these stories about him
because the constant theme was how little a shit he gave,
how he gave zero fucks.
And like maybe that, maybe that, that, that hurt him in the end,
but it also like, clearly it was like, what the fuck was I doing?
The entire time that he was around, why was I over here doing something different,
like, like, like, like playing this game of like, how am I driving with the audience?
When this guy was like, suffering under the yoke of mainstream perceptions,
and just spent every job that he went to and kept getting promoted,
he's one of those superstars that, you know, would come to work and then show up late
and like no one gave a fuck because if they fired him, their show would get unfunny.
And, and he just like spent his career, you know, bursting at the seams,
whatever seams were around him.
And what, what, what, I was that guy at one point, at some point,
and then I started tweeting and then I turned into a fucking weird half-Mr. Rogers,
half-asshole, like constantly, by the way, how are you? What's your name?
Sorry, Curtis, that's all the time we have. Curtis, I'm strong.
Thank you.
Anyways, I want to start with King of the Nerds instead of starting,
I think we'll get into like, like your, your blessings upon my, my, my adolescence,
but the, you're, you're, you're currently right now, TBS Friday nights at nine?
Friday nights at nine, yeah, we're for the first time.
It's called King of the Nerds, whereas most reality shows are kind of like,
they're called like, you know, who wants to fuck the, the, the Smiling Joe?
And it's all about, it's all about, you know, it's a very, it's a, it's a, it's a templated reality show.
I mean, it looks and feels like a reality show, except because it's,
It does, because we've got, I mean, the, you know, the people who actually know what they're doing,
you know, Robert Carradine and I, who were in Revenge of the Nerds,
we came up with the Nerd Show idea, but we needed people who actually had a clue,
because we didn't, we've never done reality shows, we've never known people who've been in reality shows.
So when, once this thing was actually going somewhere, we needed people who could actually run it,
and those are the people who are making those kinds of, of, you know, the, the actual template of,
of, you know, survivor type shows or whatever.
But those people.
But we have, we have certain things that we want to make sure they stick with,
which has to do, has to do with nerd culture and have it be a little different.
For instance, the fact that every time somebody gets eliminated, like there's, I mean, it's, it's,
It breaks everyone's heart.
And, and you, and you always, like when, when the person gets eliminated is when they are raised to the height of their,
their individuality, and you give a little kind of Springer's final thoughts about who they are.
Right, right.
You, you say, you know, Jackson, although you're, there is no cosplay and the great beyond,
you, you have, you have dressed as a hero this way.
Yeah, whatever.
You do that really well.
You give them a very personalized, and it's not, it's not just based on superficial stuff.
It's like, they always cut them because I write them too long.
I mean, I, because what we do is, I write those because I want,
I can't give them a basic, well, thanks for playing.
You know, it just, it's not in me to do it.
They mean, it's strange, but they actually, I, I'm an executive producer of this show,
and a host of the show, but I am a fan of nerds, and I've always been a fan of nerds.
And so, when I'm in a room like you've got there, and I'm watching them for, you know, 15 hours a day,
and I become so enraptured with them, and it's, when they leave, it really bothers me.
And that separation you're supposed to have as a host of a reality show, I'm not capable.
I cannot do that.
I just get too emotionally involved.
And I don't think you have to because you're kind of a den leader to these Cub Scouts,
which is somebody who does need to have a kind of cosmic detachment from them because you're...
Oh, it's kept very separate when we're shooting.
But what's going on inside of me is different.
Oh, I see.
And then what happens, yeah, when we're shooting, there's no funny business, there's no talking,
there's no, you know, they are the hosts.
You don't talk to the hosts, just like any other show.
But I'm dying inside.
Is there any room in your show for that to be revealed?
I think people take it for granted.
I think they just assume that that's the case, that you don't actually have relationships with them.
No, I'm saying, but is there room to include that your, like, pathos, pathetic pathos?
Well, you can do those little...
I take that, I use the farewells, you know, which are usually made up on the spot
because we don't know completely who's going to go home and who's not.
So they were made up at last minute.
And I use that as my way of expressing my love for them.
And then they cut that down to a tiny...
And they cut that down to this much.
But it's very, I mean, you know, obviously from the top down, there's a mandate to preserve the humanity
and not punish aberration.
Like, the things that make you different are the things that make you good,
not necessarily the things that make you bad, and the way that you win is not necessarily blending in with everyone else.
And there's a crucial difference to the show, because it's...
I mean, you know, because it's called King of the Nerds.
So it's like, they're actual nerds.
It's not like it's, you know, depending on how you define that, some people might go,
why is a guy that only reads comic books a nerd?
Because I work for NASA.
But it's like, everyone who you could authentically call a nerd, which I think is defined by kind of obsession.
I think like...
I think that's as good a description as anything.
And they come in and they do cry, and they do have mental breakdowns, and they do reveal pettiness and greed and ambition and embarrassing things.
Because they're human beings.
It's part of it.
It feels like, you know, well, this would happen to you too, and it happened to them for a read.
No one ever feels like they're walking out and you're going like, oh, fuck that psychopath.
Like, I'm glad they're, I hope they get hit by a bus as they leave the show.
They're like all like decent people.
Yeah, so thank you for making that show.
Let me just give you one quick thing.
Just to tell you, to give you an idea of how this all works for them.
When we did our premiere in January for this season, we wanted to have a party, you know, to do some press and all that.
And we sent the word out through Genevieve, who was one of your guests before, to the nerds who had been on the previous seasons saying, you know, in addition to the new nerds, if you want to come, come.
And, you know, join us for the party.
We're not paying for it.
We can't give you any money.
We can't fly you here.
But if you're here, come to the party.
All of season three, this group, all of them showed up, all but one of season two and half of season one.
And they all came here on their own dime.
They all paid for their own tickets.
They found housing.
They did all of that stuff because they wanted to be there for that premiere party.
That's great.
Because when people are on contestants on reality shows, they feel pretty flushed down the toilet and thrown away.
Because like the editing can be so cruel.
Yeah, but we don't...
It's true.
But we don't let go of them, you see.
You said earlier that you've always loved nerd culture.
When you did Revenge of the Nerds, were you guys aware of nerd culture?
No, because I don't think there was a lot of nerd culture anyway.
I mean, not really.
There were Star Trek conventions and so on.
And Comic-Cons, but they were like in basements in those days.
They weren't, you know, corporate behemoths.
Yeah, they weren't in the light of day.
Exactly.
I mean, they were all people in their garages with cardboard boxes.
Well, that movie, Revenge of the Nerds, we were talking about in the green room.
For me, by my perception, it was the very slow beginning to what we have today,
which is just nerd domination of the word nerd.
Almost means nothing.
Because what is a nerd when nerds are captains of industry and running the government and we own everything.
That's really true.
And we are the sought after demographic.
And I start to worry, should I say we?
Because I'm worried I'll get called out on not being an authentic nerd,
and yet everyone's a fucking nerd.
But it goes back to that pivot point.
I always associate it with that movie.
Because it put a label on it and said absolutely from here on out,
if you see somebody who's weird in a movie, all those people that we make fun of in the movies,
and they come through and they go, oh look, it's Purple Durper.
From now on, you have to understand that that person is the hero of their own story.
You're not allowed to just give them a wedgie and call it a joke anymore.
You could do that in meatballs.
You could do that in, leading up to that, the preppies could be the heroes.
In my memory, every movie before that, that was the joke.
Every movie after that, you weren't allowed to do that.
The jocks were the good guys until that movie.
You're right, yes.
But you were saying in the green room, this fascinates me,
that that movie was incredibly unsuccessful, critically.
Oh, critically it was a disaster.
They hated us. They just hated us.
And I think, at the time, we were sort of consoling ourselves by saying things like,
well, all critics are self-loathing nerds, and that's the reason.
They see too much of themselves in the movie.
But the director you said, I'm going to watch Revenge of the Nerds again,
see if it holds up. I do know, well, I want to talk about Better Off Dead in a second.
I have watched Better Off Dead since Bobcat was on here.
We talked about Savage Steve Holland, and I ran home and watched Better Off Dead again.
And fuck, it holds the hell up.
And it's such an important film.
And also Savage Steve, then he just kind of trickled away.
And I want to have him as a guest on here and talk about that.
The perceptions of people who are in the Midwest watching this stuff on HBO,
select TV, VHS tapes that they run into disintegration,
which Revenge of the Nerds is one of them.
Our perception is cultural efficacy.
It's just that, oh, this must be an amazingly influential, successful film.
And it is for us, but in some strange emerald city from which it's coming,
people are being rewarded and punished on different scales.
And Jeff Canoe, who directed Revenge of the Nerds, went on to direct Gotcha, you said.
I'm acting like I'm an expert.
I pumped you for this information.
He went on to direct Gotcha, which is the paintball exploitation movie.
I remember everything about that movie.
I saw it in the theater with my mom.
I was like, it's the best.
And there were those little tracer disc guns that shot little plastic discs that flew pretty well.
And I just played Gotcha all the time.
So I was going around and playing like a fake assassin and being a spy with my Gotcha gun.
Yes, I am a spy.
Sorry, that's from the commercial.
And then he sort of...
Well, this is a good question to ask of him as well.
But he was somebody who, if it had not been for Jeff Canoe,
we wouldn't have had the freedom to...
That movie wouldn't have had the freedom to develop the way it did and come out the way it did.
He was incredibly brilliant at creating an environment in which writers and actors and even producers were involved.
He was casting the producers in tiny roles in Revenge of the Nerds and sort of keeping them in the group.
And he had this collaborative writing process.
Very, very collaborative.
And he brought all of us out a week early before shooting,
putting us all up in a hotel with the writers and the producers and so on.
And we would just sit in the hotel all day.
We'd be hanging out at the pool and then they would call you in and you would go in and you would talk about who Booger was.
And you had to write everything down.
I went back to my room and I did my old acting school job of writing down my biography of Booger.
I did this.
What is Booger's biography?
That was really funny because what wound up happening was like last year I was going through a trunk of stuff
and I found this amazing notebook which I still have that I, because I was serious,
you know, this was an acting thing that you did when you were trained the way I was trained.
And I had this booklet and it's got the bios of all of the characters I played in those early movies up to about 87.
And so I'm looking at it, this ur text, and I go into it and I find Booger's biography.
And I'm reading what I wrote in 1984 as to who I thought Booger was.
God damn it, I would have told you to bring that.
I can tell you right now, it was me.
It was totally me.
I was going to ask you, how much of Booger was on the page on the script before?
There was very little.
There was almost none.
Like was there a breakdown for the character that said Booger comes in and he looks like?
No, I didn't audition for Booger.
I auditioned for Gilbert or Anthony's part.
Which is what I thought I was reading for.
I said, oh, that's great, I'm working with Bobby Carradine, that's fabulous.
And then it turned out that I was actually auditioning for a part that was too small and too disgusting to audition people.
You know, you couldn't use Booger.
What is it going to be?
It's like, I think the douchebag line, my mother's old douchebag, but that's back in Ohio.
That was like the only line that had a beginning and an end, you know, for Booger.
It was mainly nose picking and belching.
Because your character was only nerdy in the sense that you were just completely...
He wasn't nerdy at all.
You were a sociopath.
You were just a...
Exactly.
Booger's only reason for existence is to show how Saint like these other nerds are.
You just believed in them so much, like, this guy is the best.
What they do is he gets thrown out, I mean, it's sort of a traditional thing.
He gets thrown into the outer darkness with them.
Right.
And they don't even think about it.
They just say, oh, you come with us.
That's okay.
So this is an important thing because you mentioned something.
You and I are a similar age, which is the same generation, like, and then there's a new generation.
If you look at Revenge of the Nerds through current eyes, I mean, without rewatching it,
I will tell you the fucking unacceptable red flags that are going to come up.
There is absolutely non-consensual sex that converts a woman from being a bad guy to a good guy
because she lets the nerd like disguise himself.
And then she's like, oh, you're so good at kind of language.
It's just horrible.
Is it Darth Vader too?
Yeah.
By our modern definitions, there's racism, there's homophobia.
There's, I mean, there's a million crimes that we've come as we've progressed.
Like, now you look back 30 years and it's like, oh, yeah.
It's really true.
The important kind of, like, socio-political, like, subversive element, though,
and that's where Booger comes in is the idea that that was the first time in my consciousness
that we put a word on nerd, but the whole idea of the movie that was demonstrated,
not just in that final monologue, oh, we're all nerds,
even the beautiful people are saying, I'm a nerd too.
But more importantly, throughout the first and second act,
this creeping realization that the word nerd has no boundary except that you are the other,
which means that if you smoke weed, you're a nerd, which means that if you're a grote,
which means that, and what is the common hub,
it is being divested of your right to prejudice because there is a gay man within the nerds.
A gay black man.
He is not immediately sussed out for his aberration.
He is ignored.
He is welcomed.
It's never questioned.
And when we go to you and Jefferson, because we want the lambda, lambda, lambda to support us,
we say that there will be no prejudice which we think will get us in with him, Bernie Casey.
There won't be any prejudice according to race or creed,
and Larry B, who plays Lamar, says, or sexual orientation,
which is like a joke that would work now.
If you were doing that kind of a parody on that sort of thing.
They meant it as a parable for antisemitism.
That's what the writers meant.
I just found out about Superman.
I remember hating that and then learning that two Jewish kids created it.
It was the same thing.
And they did that, the burning nerds on the lawn and all of that.
They were going into these, which were at the time, for people our age,
they were these strong cultural flags of something that had been going on in the 60s and the 70s
that we were supposedly coming out of now, which of course we haven't, but that was the idea.
Revenge of the nerds.
And now...
I was making a drink and I didn't notice.
I could keep talking while you're doing that.
I want to hear, now it's time to talk about Better Off Dead.
Which is what you really want to talk about anyway.
Well, kind of, but I don't want you to talk out of school.
That's a movie.
I did a quote, I did a reference to that movie, not knowing you were going to be here,
I think last week or the week before, and that's a movie that I think...
I know I quote a couple of times a week, ever since I've seen it.
It's also like, it's a thing that when something happens, everybody in the room of a certain age
all says the same line, I've never seen snow without quoting you from that movie.
Because that's a great fucking line.
Which one?
The street value of mountain living?
My favorite moment in Better Off Dead is when the bad guy, like, you know, he skis to a stop
and then there's John Cusack and there's his cute girlfriend who's going to get stolen by the bad guy.
And then there's Curtis' character standing next to him.
And the bad guy, the preppy bad guy, looking at Cusack's girlfriend goes like,
oh, you're a cute little thing, what's your name?
And with incredible sincerity, you step over and go, Charles Dumar?
And it's not, you're not being the guy who's like, you're not the animal house subversion.
Your character in that movie is like an interesting tweak on the nerd character
because he's absolutely, like, he doesn't ever seem to really take any sides
and he's sort of like, he's very happy to be called a cute little thing
and help that guy with his skiing if that's what he wanted in that moment.
I'll hold your clipboard.
No, it was such an odd movie because it, hello.
It was a story that was pretty typical, that was being filtered through his sensibility
which no one was aware of at the time.
He was very new, he was 24, I think, and he was making this, you know,
what was basically, you know, this was a real movie.
How many of you guys, how many of you see better up, Jed?
More accurately, by applause, honestly, who has not seen the movie?
Wow, it's creeping in.
I mean, this is, we're getting old.
This is the thing, now it's like me talking to somebody, like, your age,
about movies that when I was your age, I thought would never go away
and they've already gone.
I mean, Better Off Dead, it didn't occur to me until...
You mean like Birth of a Nation?
Yeah, those kinds of movies.
I was growing up, we were all growing up on John Hughes movies
and it did, when I rewatched Better Off Dead, what I finally realized
having become in my old age a kind of John Hughes expert
was that, the thing about Better Off Dead was its departure from the John Hughes, like, mainline
and I didn't, there was no other way to express it when you were back then
except that it's a weird movie, it's a crazy movie, it's weird,
but what's that? Is that a weird movie would be, you know, an easy writer?
I mean, it would just be about something weird.
This is about sex and teenage life and going to prom and winning ski competitions.
The tone of it, the reality is like, it's not grounded in the John Hughes, like, reality
where you can live and die by what someone feels.
And there's comedy sketches that keep recurring throughout this.
It just breaks genre all the time.
Well, the universe is absurd.
There are so many things about the universe that make absolutely no sense
that I would imagine a normal producer would immediately say, with all the best intentions,
you can't do that. I know you think that's fun.
The reason you think that's fun is because you're bored and you're a director
or you're a writer and you want to have fun, but the audience doesn't want to have that much fun.
I say this all the time when I'm making my TV show.
I'm constantly going like, let's not freak them out.
They want to believe these people are real so that we can continue to have fun for a thousand years.
But then if you really, the thing that I've learned in doing community is that as long as when people,
if somebody is betrayed, if they feel betrayed and you believe they're betrayed,
it doesn't matter if the moon is a dick.
The universe can just be anything.
You can be in outer space, you can just cut to anything.
We're all pickles now, but as long as you have to pick that one channel to be consistent with,
the physics of emotional consistency.
Why wouldn't that guy say that that guy was an asshole?
He just was an asshole to him.
I don't care if they're pickles. I'm not going to ask why they're pickles.
We didn't ask why Snoopy didn't run out of room in his doghouse.
We were held to the ground, but you did.
I wondered that.
Remember those letters that you ever read about?
Who was the actor that played Father Brady on the Brady Bunch?
I can't think of the name.
Well, he'd be happy right now.
What the hell's his name?
Greg Brady?
No, that can't be true.
He would get these big fights with Sherwood Schwartz.
Robert...
Is that it?
Is it Robert Reed?
Did I get half of it right?
I'm sorry.
I almost said Robert Shaw.
He would get these big arguments with letters back and forth with Sherwood Schwartz
and say, there cannot be a pie fight.
You cannot have a family in a house and all of a sudden go into slapstick
and Sherwood Schwartz says, we're making a TV show.
We're having a good time.
There's rules that have to be adhered to.
He was determined to keep there to be logic within the world of the Brady Bunch.
The audience, I love the pie fights on the Brady Bunch.
I think it's also, in the case of the movies, it was an interesting time
because I think that period around the 80s, the beginning of the 80s, mid-80s,
was the last time you could really do a movie like Better Off Dead
and have it be produced by a major film company
and released in theaters with these actors in it who, you know,
I mean, John Cusack was not anybody who anyone really knew at the time
and it's certainly none of the rest of it.
Kim Darby was probably the biggest star among us, you know.
Who's that?
Kim Darby.
You don't know who Kim Darby is?
No, who's Kim Darby?
I love that you don't know.
Kim Darby was in the original, she played Cusack's mother.
Oh, okay.
In Lane's mother in Better Off Dead
and she was the original girl in True Grit, the John Wayne True Grit.
Was it right?
Yeah.
She's French dressing and French fries?
French fries.
That's her?
Yeah, that's her.
I quoted that a couple days ago.
Yeah.
We just saw her.
I mean, we just did a reading.
Well, she's the little girl in True Grit with John Wayne.
In True Grit.
I did not know that.
Well, see, there you are.
You learned something tonight.
Really cool.
Yeah.
I don't know what I would have done.
I don't know who I'd be if I didn't have that movie in my life.
John Cusack's character in that movie lived in a house that was roughly the size of mine.
It looked like a real house, too.
He didn't have the problems I had, but he lived in a world that I did in that I felt completely
alienated.
It was better expressed by that director than God bless him for all of his incredibly important
work, John Hughes.
But I mean, it was more poignantly expressed through an absurdist lens by this more punk
rock director saying, let's go more extreme with this.
Let's just say I want to kill myself.
Let's have me try to kill myself.
Let's express how I feel through animation.
Let's express how I feel through characters that could not exist in real life, like coming
at me, that the net result will be that I feel beleaguered, that I feel like I'm okay.
It is just so awkward.
It is awesome to go into voiceover narration when the two Asian guys come up.
Right.
Are you asking, who did that?
No, I'm saying, just to do that is hilarious.
You know it's coming back for the third time.
The second time it happens, it's going to happen a third time, and it's going to be
at a great point in the movie.
I want my two dollars, that has to pay off, and all these little things have to keep recurring.
It's wonderful.
Yeah.
Better off dead.
Now, okay.
Now, not to be a jerk, because I get to work with very frequently, and I love them to pieces,
and we've talked about it quite a bit, and he has wonderful stories, as Joel Murray.
Oh, yeah.
And he said, the shooting of One Crazy Summer, that you guys were in Nantucket or Martha's
Vineyard, or where were you guys?
We were in Vogue.
And he's got awesome, like, ribbled, sexy stories about what you guys got to do.
No, I was not in that.
I'm not in that.
I'm noticeably not in any of those stories.
Aren't you in that one?
No, no, I'm in the movie.
Yeah.
But I wasn't in any of the sexy ribblings.
I missed all of those.
I was, you know...
No kidding, I was too bad, because he has some really...
I know.
He has some juzzies.
Yeah.
Joel did great, you know.
Bill's younger brother, you know?
He's the youngest of the Murray brothers.
He's number nine out of nine.
Yeah.
Now, because it happened on Twitter, so you could tell the story, right, that you were
just telling me about the Kuzak...
Oh, just an interesting story, yeah.
That, you know, this...
I mean, of course, many of you here have not actually seen Better Off Dead, but...
The legend is the Kuzak...
He did the movie.
...not a fan of the movie.
And I will...
I will...
Let me lend this, because you're not talking at school.
I am.
Rob Schrab was up to direct Hot Tub Time Machine long ago.
He had a meeting with Kuzak where he...
Rob's going to be very angry at me about something.
Like, he came back from that meeting.
I won't go into specifics, but he had a conversation where he came away from saying, oh my God,
John Kuzak doesn't like Better Off Dead.
Okay.
So, it's out there...
It's out there that he was not happy with the movie.
And then we had to make a second movie.
The following year, we made a second movie with almost the same cast.
Because it was like a two-picture deal, or...
Yeah.
So, it was supposedly the first two of three movies.
And the legend that I've heard is that Kuzak had not seen Better Off Dead...
No, that's not true.
That's not true.
He had seen it.
Okay.
That there was a...
Before they started shooting one crazy summer, there was a screening of Better Off Dead.
That might have happened because I wasn't in Nantucket when they started filming, so
they may have screened it there.
And that made...
So that there was like this new director, it was like this...
I knew that he was...
He had not been happy with the movie, that movie.
So they're starting one crazy summer and it is like...
So they're starting a second movie with the same director and an actor who is not happy
with the first movie is what appeared to be the case.
And over the years, the legends have...
Yeah, I mean, it's just gotten ridiculous where everybody says, well, not only does
he hate it, but he abuses people who refer to it.
And he actually, if he's handed something to sign and it has something to do with Better
Off Dead, he will tear it up and throw it away.
I mean, the stories became legend.
Are those verifiable?
Is that all legend?
No, no.
It's just...
I heard he stabbed a child one time.
Is that true?
Because his name was...
That's right.
It was a little kid.
That's what women said.
My two dollars is a joke.
No.
These are the kinds of things...
Well, okay.
The end of the story, as you're asking for, is that we did this reading three weeks ago
in San Francisco for SketchFest.
And it was...
Savage was there and a bunch of us from the movie, Kim Darby, Diane Franklin, Amanda Weiss,
we were all there and we were reading the script.
Reading Better Off Dead?
Better Off Dead.
Because Qzack is not there.
So the next day, I'm getting all of these Twitter questions from people saying, where's
Qzack?
Why wasn't Qzack there?
Why didn't you invite Qzack?
That's bullshit, man.
You should have had Qzack there.
It was his movie and all this stuff and going on and on.
And I usually don't respond to that kind of thing, but I finally wrote a Twitter tweet
and said, you know, John's not a fan of the film.
And that's the truth.
So that's why he wasn't there.
It's not like we didn't want him there.
We would have loved to have had him.
It doesn't like the movie.
Ten minutes later, John Qzack tweets, not true.
I love Twitter so fucking much.
I mean, you wouldn't be here without Twitter.
So I know.
And so it winds up, John and I, I have not spoken to John in 25 years, probably.
And we never followed each other on Twitter.
He loved the movie so much to talk to his co-stars or to be too tamper with that memory.
No, it's just, you know, you don't, I mean, you move on in your life and you just don't,
you know, you don't live in each other's pants.
Exactly.
It's just, you move on.
So, so it's been a long time.
But it's, it's been a long time and we don't follow each other on Twitter.
So suddenly he's following me on Twitter.
So I follow him on Twitter.
Because he must have got zoomed by a thousand tweets, like right now, yeah.
Of course.
And then we start direct messaging about it.
And it was so wonderful to hear, you know, I mean, whatever his feelings had been, you
know, he was, it was really great to, to get some nice feedback from him.
What was the, what was the kind of threat, the, the takeaway from that conversation was,
he just, I mean, he says, you know, I hated the music.
I remember he said that he hated the music.
I thought, well, that's 80s music.
I hate, everybody hates 80s music.
But was he sort of like, was the, when you, who sent the first direct message?
I'm like a 14 year old girl right now.
Or boy.
He sent, he sent the first one because what, what happened was he sent this out a regular
tweet, but he tagged me.
So when I followed him, he saw me.
So he followed me.
And then he followed up on his initial tweet, in which he said more about what, you know,
what his feelings were.
So who sent the first direct message to, to you following up, that's what he had already
said.
Hey, hey, Curtis, just so you know, like I really, I really love that movie.
He didn't say that.
It was, it was subtler than that.
It was more like, just so you know, you know, it's a big mistake to spread rumors about
the Coos.
Well, no, no, no.
Those are the two ends of the spectrum.
If you mess with the Coos, you know, Joel Murray did what you did five years ago and
now he's doing improv with Jeff Davis.
I will bury you.
So he didn't come out and say, retract that he, at one point, had.
No, no, no, no.
Look, you know what, there's, it's all, you know, what, what winds up happening is, and
I said this when I, when I messaged him back, I said, this is what happens when you, when
you communicate through, you know, playing telephone, right, you know, to use a really
old thing.
You know, it's older than that Chinese telephone.
That was an expression.
I said, you know, you say one thing, somebody then comes to me and says, did you hear what
he said?
And I go, oh, geez, he said that.
And then it goes back and forth and back and forth.
And that was the way.
That was the way.
So how were things left with you and he?
Fine.
Fine?
Yeah.
I mean.
You guys going to hang out?
No.
You're going to, are you going to help him ski the 4K, or the 5K, 12K, 12K.
Now, the 12K dude, when I hear, and this is just me projecting onto him, he even does
my voice.
It's a little scary.
Well, no, it's unintentional.
No, no, no, I kind of sound like you, regardless.
The 12K dude, that's not bad.
Believe me, it's funnier in context.
There's that scene when he's making the burgers and Van Halen starts singing that terrible,
it's not a good Van Halen song, by the way, for my money, and he starts doing animation
with the burgers and the thing.
Right.
If there was a scene, if I were John Cusack and I looked back at the screening of that,
I would not be proud of that scene because it's pretty, pretty ham bone.
And so when I hear him say he doesn't like the music, I think he's embarrassed about
that one scene more specifically.
Well, that could be, but that takes me into a whole area that I can't even comment on.
And that also makes me wonder, well, how does he feel about Tapeheads?
He must be like a hipster.
He must love Tapeheads.
I have no idea what he likes or doesn't like.
Because I just remember Tapeheads, which was an equally cult, and I bet that had a lot
more street cred with music.
Well, it was an independent movie.
I was working for that company when it was made, actually.
And that was a sort of low-budget, independent, edgy movie of the time.
And Tim Robbins.
How is it that you, so you're this guy in Better Off Dead, which by the way, what order
is that in?
When are you booger in relation to Better Off Dead?
I don't even know.
It goes, it goes, it goes Revenge of the Nerds and Better Off Dead the same year.
But Better Off Dead second.
So my confusion is forgivable.
Yes.
But, and then there's, so were you, how does that, I want to hear the kind of story about
you going from, I think every actor has that fork on the road career story, or your one
bedroom apartment and you're thinking of moving back to, where are you from by the
way?
I'm from Detroit.
Okay.
So you're in L.A., I'm assuming, you're?
No, I was in New York then, actually.
Okay.
But what's the threshold?
What's the red light that you don't hit?
I think it was, it was moonlighting, actually, it was none of those.
Wait, what do you mean?
Oh, it's right, you're on moonlighting.
Well, I mean, but that was, God damn, I forgot about it.
That was, I fucking loved that show.
That's not fair though, I knew that, I was going to talk about it.
I didn't know, I forgot about it.
But that's, that's way after, that's after all that.
And I know, but I was still living in New York the whole time, and I would do the movies.
You don't have to realize, you're telling me that in your, in my head, this is how,
this is what I was thinking.
This will give you a great idea, because I started in the theater, okay?
So I was working, like, from mid-seventies to my first movie, which was Risky Business,
which was the year before.
Risky Business, I forgot, I knew that one.
How can I forget that?
You had the, the line that defines Risky Business.
Right.
This is Risky Business, man!
That's kind of like that.
Jesus Christ, this business is risky.
Do you have an idea of how risky this business is?
I forgot you right, I was, I was, I was in it.
I was in that, and, but.
This business is pure risk.
They put me in that movie, and I thought it was the only movie I would ever make, because
I was not thinking in terms of movies, I was thinking in terms of stage.
So when I did Risky Business, I kept a journal every day that I was on the movie for 11 weeks
or 10 weeks, only because I wanted to remember what making a movie was like.
I really thought I would then just go back to doing, you know, regional theater, and
doing, you know, stuff in New York and that, and that was going to be it.
Are you a song and dance man, or are you just a dramatic, you want to play Willie Lohman,
you want to.
No.
No, I, I just do the same rubbish on stage that I do on film.
The, so, okay, so was, where was Risky Business in this, Better Off Dead, slash.
83 was Risky Business, 84 was Revenge of the Nerds, Better Off Dead.
Oh, okay, god damn it, I kept Risky Business out of nowhere.
Anyway, my point is that all of the, what all of that was going on in the, the movies,
the movie things, it was only when I got moonlighting that I actually was out here and working
here and realizing I couldn't go anywhere because we were working, you know, 10 months
out of the year.
So you've always been sort of like on, on surely from the stage, and your, your mind.
I mean, it's hard for me to even think about it now.
That's so funny because I mean, you were, you were Booger slash Charles Dumar, and, and
then I, yeah, at some point I bothered to see Risky Business, but it was about like
sexy people, and I, it wasn't, I forgot that you were in that, and like, and I, moonlighting
was my favorite show, and I was watching it every night, and, and I remember when you
arrived as Miss De Pesto's lover, and, and I remember thinking like, ah, fuck him, he
sold out.
Right.
Well, but you were thinking, and so it begins, I guess I'm not going back to the stage.
I was thinking, I now have more than $200.
Right.
Because you were just doing these movies that were, yeah, that's despite their cultural
efficacy.
Yeah, I mean, now it seems like I must have been just making a fortune.
And I wasn't.
That's everyone's perception of everyone they, they see on screen, yeah.
Wow.
All right.
That's why it was so, I mean, because, you know, you do those movies, and I did maybe
six movies in the whole decade, six or seven movies, and that was it.
Everything else I was doing was stage, you know, there was no money at all.
Do you have anywhere to be?
When?
Now?
Tonight.
No, I was going to be here with you.
Right.
I sort of, I sort of cleared my mind.
You don't have a heart out, do you?
No, I don't have a heart out.
This is the point where Dan's afraid to, to keep his guests as much as he wants you
to stay.
No, no, no.
I'm, I'm still good if you're, if you're good.
Okay.
You're allowed to fuck straight off if you want to go, but we would love to have you
stay if you, if you could.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I'm going to bring out my, some of my other, thank you.
Uh, I, uh, let's, uh, is Spencer back there?
Spencer?
Are you in the house?
Yeah.
All right.
Spencer, everybody.
Spencer, Chris.
Spencer.
Oh, oh, my goodness.
Oh, oh, it's great to be here.
Spencer, Spencer, did you willfully ignore the most important high five of my life?
Wait, what are you talking about?
I just hung a high five out there and you walked right by.
Oh, I thought you were like, yay, Spencer, yay.
Yes, but I wanted to make physical contact.
I always want to make physical contact with you, Jeff.
I'm going to, I'm going to fuck the shit out of you after the show.
Yeah.
Spencer, were you affected in your, uh, upbringing by any of Curtis Armstrong's, uh, oof, oof.
Oh, totally.
Like when I was in a middle school, I remember there's these kids talking about this movie
and I was like, that sounds like the best movie I've ever heard.
And, uh, it was Revenge of the Nerds and it influenced my life.
All right.
It almost sounds like the answer he'd have if he was just trying to stay out of trouble.
Right.
Exactly.
I definitely remember now that you guys bring it up that kids in middle school were talking
about it.
And I was like, that sounds crazy.
I don't really watch movies.
Uh, I hate to admit it, but yeah, it's a, it's a huge problem in my life because everyone's
all like, oh, it's like a risky business and I'm like, I don't know what you mean.
Why is, why is this guy wearing underwear?
I don't, you miss all these, all these reference points.
I don't know.
What are you guys up to?
There was at least an entire episode of Moonlighting where it was you and Mr. Pesto, uh, uh, because
it was like,
Yeah, that would happen a lot in broadcast TV back then.
I remember an episode of Miami Vice when Crockett and Tubbs know where to be found and there
were just two guys.
Yeah.
Those were always, those were always the episodes at Christmas when the stars got to leave
like on December 1st and they had no one to film.
So they would film us and that was, that was what that was.
How was Sybil Shepard to work with, if I may ask?
Well, uh, I never had a problem with Sybil Shepard actually.
She was a bit notorious later on.
I don't know about that.
They were both notorious actually, um, at different points, but, uh, but I never had
a problem, you know, as far as acting.
I never had a problem.
I love that show.
My favorite memory of that is my family all watched that.
We didn't watch a lot of shows all as a family, but we watched it together.
But every time Sybil Shepard was on screen, it was so gauzed out like she had this incredible
filter.
Well, they would joke about that on the show.
Yeah.
They did.
They made a joke about her fill, the filters.
Yeah.
She came, she came out into the office.
Well, you know what?
I saw the camera.
And Jerry Fenerman was the DP on Moonlighting.
He was the DP on the original Star Trek.
And if you watch the original Star Trek, every time there's a beautiful alien woman,
it, you know, there'll be Kirk and it's just Kirk.
And then it goes to her close up and it's like she's, uh, you can barely see her.
Somebody's rubbed Vaseline on the lens.
The Vaseline that they've got on the lens.
And it was, it was, uh, it was Jerry Fenerman's sort of his signature.
And so he was still doing it in the 80s when it was actually now probably not such a good
idea.
Some walk by nerd.
Very good.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Very good.
See, I got that.
We've mentioned, uh, Nerddom, Star Trek, and, uh, and a bunch of things.
We haven't even talked about Leonard Nimoy, man.
I know.
Oh, Leonard Nimoy passed.
Yeah.
That's a pretty.
He, he all, all life well lived.
That's one of those mission accomplished deaths that's like, oh, great to live for
you forever.
But we were, you know, 15 years ago, we had made our peace.
Um, well, I expected you to laugh.
It sounds like, I don't know.
That one landed on the foul line.
I don't know.
It was supposed to land so far out that it was funny.
Like I was supposed to, like I was supposed to, I was making fun of myself.
Instead of sounding like you wished him dead 15 years ago.
Yeah.
It may be too soon, man, for that joke.
I, uh, no, I mean, it's, uh, it's what a, what a, yeah, it's, I, the end of an era
for sure.
Spencer, did, did, uh, original Sirius Star Trek ever cross your path?
Uh, no, but I did enjoy that ballad of, uh, Bilbo Baggins there.
Yeah.
I remember that from his second album.
His best.
Two sides of Leonard Nimoy.
Is, uh, I consider it, I consider it kind of his Sergeant Pepper.
Yeah.
No, definitely.
So Leonard Nimoy was depicted graphically.
Like, was it like, like, you know Leonard Nimoy is this like Vulcan-esque guy.
It was exactly the album was called Two Sides of Leonard Nimoy and two pictures in profile,
one of Leonard as a, as Leonard and the other as Spock.
Yeah.
There's a great photo that Proup sent me today.
It's a, it's him and a turtleneck hanging out with Jimmy Hendricks.
And it's like, yeah.
Yeah.
Because you like, you see, when that, that, that's weird, isn't it?
That there was a time when those things, Jimmy looks more excited to be with Leonard
Nimoy than vice versa.
I, well, can you imagine being, like, like, and being alive at a time, like, working
at a time when Star Trek was on the air.
Yeah.
And then Spock walking into a party.
Like, are you fucking kidding me?
Yeah.
Like, we get excited about Jeff Goldblum.
Like, oh, he's kind of the Spock of Jurassic Park.
I don't know.
Like, like, it's not, there's nothing like, like, I mean, Spock walked in the door.
That's a different thing.
Yeah.
Like, specifically Leonard Nimoy.
Like, such a crazy, like, like, striking looking guy.
Oh, I, it's 9-Eleven.
And don't we have a, are we, are we going to do a new tradition at 9-Eleven?
What was it?
I forget.
It was Make-A-Wish.
Oh, yeah.
It's your 9-Eleven wish.
I wish, I wish for no more 9-Elevens, but, all right, let's forget that.
I wish, I wish Leonard Nimoy dropped dead 15 years ago.
Curtis, do you want to make a wish?
It's still 9-Eleven.
Make your 9-Eleven wish before it's over.
No, I can't, I can't.
That's too much pressure for me.
Spencer, you get a 9-Eleven wish?
I just want to be, we didn't actually settle, that was one of the pitches was to make a
wish, but that was not where we settled.
I thought there was one that I jazzed to more than a wish.
Yeah, exactly.
There was, I don't know what it is.
Did anybody recall from last week?
I just love killing momentum.
Whoa.
Wow.
It's more of an opportunity.
Like a 9-Eleven during 9-Eleven.
I just made a new wish, motherfucker.
Did my wife ever make it here?
Yeah.
Is Erin here?
Erin McGathy.
Good day to the stage.
Hello.
Hi.
Erin is the reason why we watch your show in bed with our dogs, our many dogs.
We have a very specific fetish.
It was just outlined.
That's a really specific one.
Curtis, I heard that not all of your summers have been sane.
Curtis was in one crazy summer.
Did you guys bring that up already?
Yeah, we did, actually.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
You talked about that, but that's all right.
The pikey takes a long time with the burger.
It's nice to know that you were listening to the show.
Me and my best friend, Kimber, is backstage.
We got some burgers.
We ordered them with some boogers.
Where'd you get the burgers from?
That's what I want to know.
I don't know why in that moment I thought you were.
I can't see him, so when that voice comes out, I get confused.
It's a real layout issue.
No.
Where'd the burgers come from?
I'm sorry I brought it up.
It's very boring.
We ordered burgers from the pikey thinking that we would get them before eight o'clock,
and we didn't.
That's not boring at all.
That story is a rich tapestry.
That's a Navajo quilt.
I'm very embarrassed about my one crazy summer joke,
because I was about to come out and I'm like,
they haven't even mentioned one crazy summer.
We're going to be real cool.
Covered that first, actually.
Well, this is One Boring Spring.
There's a segment I'd like to do.
I'd like to add a segment that comes after 9-11
called Dan's Getting Tipsy.
Play the theme music.
Because this now is my favorite song of all time.
From the morning to the night, you're going to drink, drink, drink, drink and drink.
Family, family.
There's always going to come a point, obviously, of the show,
because I drink throughout the show,
I start to lose control and start to regret.
The reason I don't listen to the show the next night.
Were you drinking before the show?
What I wanted to say is, no, I wasn't drinking.
What are you, Dr. Drew?
I'm just saying.
Were you easing as a kid?
No, I was in the edit bay, but I just sit here.
You sit down and you start to earn this drinking during the show.
I started to get a little buzz, and then I started to think,
I just wanted to say, Curtis, you look so great on the show,
on the King of the Nerd show.
You look so activated and glowing and happy and handsome and delivering so much.
That's why I want people to watch the show.
Because I look much better than I do here.
Spencer, Molly just kicked in, so I want to tell you this.
There's a segment for that, too.
Everyone's drugs are kicking in.
This is very dumb, but I think maybe, I'll call it 10 years ago,
give or take.
I was at a Chipotle on Sunset Boulevard, and you were in front of me,
and I wanted to hug you, because there's Curtis.
I was so happy, and I was too shy to say hello,
but I was very happy to be standing behind Curtis,
and I'm strong at the Chipotle.
I think it was a different word.
Baja fresh.
Now do you remember?
Oh, the Baja fresh.
I was the guy right behind you.
You were the guy behind me that time.
I was the guy.
You know why I remember?
It was the only time I ever went into that place.
Because it's such a risky business.
That was the right response.
That was pretty crazy.
When your business doesn't have insurance,
it is taking certain gambles on the lawn,
beat, beat, financial risk.
Everybody's going to do it.
Risky business.
Curtis, you're so joyful on that show,
and you clearly are super into it.
Has anybody brought up your rap, your TBS rap?
My rap?
No, no one brought it up.
You have a rap?
Yeah, I think it's called On Fridays.
Well, I don't know.
I'm not sure what it was called.
Is anybody familiar with Curtis's rap?
I'm going to try to do it.
Oh, it's, no, you know what?
King of the Nerds.
King of the Nerds on Friday.
TBS on Friday.
Nine o'clock.
The King of the Nerds.
The Nerds is back.
Back in the nerdiest nerd town.
No, Nerds, New Night, New Nerds, in fact.
The Ultimate Nerds in the Ultimate Showdown.
Battlehead.
Comes out for the Ultimate Nerd Crown.
King of the Nerds.
Something like that.
Hashtag something.
Hashtag nerds rule.
Wish you would have known back in high school.
Yeah.
Wow.
I kind of feel bad that MC John didn't sit on that one.
Yeah.
No.
Dan has a new rap character.
And I'm expecting, you know, Kanye to come out here any second.
Also, Curtis, you've been, you've exposed a lot of skin this season.
How do you feel about that?
I got naked.
Was that your pitch or was that, what was the...
Yeah, it was the only time I've ever actually appeared in front of people without any clothes on.
So we had a theory about that.
What was it?
Because you're, so you're EPing the show with Karenine.
Yeah.
He seems a little, like, can we talk about Bobby?
He, like, does he...
Can we talk about Bobby?
He seems less invested than the show than you.
Oh, no, no, no.
Not at all.
No, he's absolutely, it's just, I mean, you know, you have two people.
If we were both doing exactly the same thing, that would be...
Right.
Oh, so he...
He does what he does.
So he said, you're gonna get naked and you're like, yeah, I'll get naked.
Yeah, no, no, I'll be, you know, we just, we had to get naked because, I had to get naked
because I will do anything.
And they were trying to figure out, it was, well, I mean, the limits.
But they were, they, we needed to explain why, this is so stupid, but we, it was actually
just because we needed to explain why the nerds were not gonna pick their teams this year.
I mean, you didn't have to do what you did.
It's great, but it's good.
Somebody said, one of the show runners said, what about if we do Terminator and you show
up naked from the future to explain why the nerds can't do this?
So I said, great, because it was like...
It was fantastic.
Yeah.
It was a great idea.
I was worried it was not gonna pay off until the end of the season that you guys were trying
to do like a seasonal thing.
Like this was the season when...
Well, we've done it now.
I mean, we did it, you know, after the first season, we came back with an explanation.
We have to figure out why the king is dead.
No, no, you don't.
You don't.
No, we do.
But it's very nerdy of you to do it.
We do that.
You don't have to do it.
It's true.
No one, the bachelor never says like...
We ran out of roses on the first season.
We gave them all away.
Yeah, we had to put them down.
That's why we're different.
But I guess they're not saying it's the king of married people on that show.
Like they're just saying, you two are married, fuck off.
And you're saying it's the king of the nerds.
No, I love that.
Each season begins with the reason why the king of the nerds is now gone.
So we have to get a new king and it has to...
You know, it's a science fiction thing.
With those bits, like this is the third season.
Have there been any that you've regretted?
Oh, what?
You mean nerds?
Oh, well, sure.
No, no, your bits like the Terminator...
Oh, no, no, no, I don't regret anything.
Oh, that's good.
But you've regretted some of the nerds?
No, no, I don't regret them either.
I thought if that's what you were going to ask, I was going to say,
no, I don't have any regrets about the nerds.
And I have no regrets about anything I've ever done.
Do you have any regrets in life?
He just said, no, you fucking asshole.
Well, no.
You're talking about the shot, guys.
Wait a minute.
He was asking about life.
I was saying that I don't have any regrets about my career.
Oh, okay.
I mean, you know.
I just thought you should regret that question.
Well, I mean, he...
Yeah.
I like you regret nothing.
No, I regret nothing.
I don't regret asking that question.
Fuck you.
Yeah.
All right.
Now, do you regret saying bullshit?
No.
Let's not acknowledge this asshole that keeps on talking to the audience.
Who got away?
Did you ever have any romances with any co-stars?
What?
On the...
You have to be more specific.
Oh!
You mean...
I mean, on the nerds?
Like when you were wearing that Dickensian cap,
you had a better off dad or...
Oh, my little top hat.
Oh, that was a big top hat, Curtis.
Have I ever had romances on jobs, you mean?
Yes.
Of course.
Or what...
Was that cool?
At the time.
You don't have to say whom, but is there anyone that's like a very...
like a Diane Keaton where you're like,
I know what it looks like.
Is there any...?
No.
No, there's nothing like that.
Nothing like that.
It could be anything.
Curtis, do you know what Diane Keaton's badge looks like?
It has a very tasteful vest.
You're saying Diane Keaton's vagina dresses up like Annie Hall?
I'm saying Diane Keaton's vagina dresses up like Diane Keaton, who dresses up like Annie Hall.
She's not always in a vest.
No, she's not, but that...
King of the Nerds!
King of the Nerds on Fridays!
All right.
So thanks for doing that, because it gives me a chance to say it's on Fridays.
And, you know, we're still running at this point.
And it's doing well in the ratings now.
It's doing well in the ratings.
Yeah.
Which is a relief.
It is for me.
I'm a TVist and you can't tell.
I don't know when I'm watching the show.
Usually in the old days in TV, you'd go like, well, obviously,
Manimal is killing.
Because now the peacock has a fin on it.
Because it turns into a shark and...
Wait, are you joking about that?
Did Manimal morph the peacock into other animals?
No.
Goddamn, that would be great.
No, because Manimal never killed.
I used to...
You ever pretended to be Manimal?
I would do a thing where I'd put my hand on my desk and make my finger pulse.
Remember when Manimal was like, is this going to hand or puff out?
I had a Manimal trick when I was a kid.
Jack Black, I think I've told this on the show.
Jack Black was, when we were doing Heat Vision and Jack,
we were swapping stories about the influence of Six Million Dollar Man.
And he said that he would go to school.
I just talked about this, didn't I, on this podcast?
When he was in sixth grade, because he loved Six Million Dollar Man so much,
he would sometimes tuck wires, electrical wires into his sleeve,
and go to class and wait for, in his peripheral vision,
for another kid to possibly see the wires,
but not look at the kid and just hide the wires.
Because he was that into...
That's great.
He wanted to be a secret robot.
Wow.
That's such a little...
I did something like that.
Do you want to hear what mine was?
Because I wasn't into Six Million Dollar Man,
but I just wasn't okay.
Was that that same guy who keeps asking questions?
Okay, I didn't like it, okay?
But what I did, I loved Sherlock Holmes, though.
I was really into Sherlock Holmes.
Like, in what incarnation? Just the books.
Wow.
A real nerd.
Yeah.
And my bedroom overlooked the street outside my parents' house.
And so what I would do,
because I couldn't get dates and I had no friends,
so I would lower my shade and light myself from behind.
And then this friend of mine had given me...
No.
Stop. Let me finish.
So this friend of mine...
I know where you're headed, Curtis.
Had given me a violin, which had no strings.
And I would stand in front of the shade and pretend to play the violin.
That's called homologing.
Hoping somebody would walk by and go,
boy, he's really more interesting than I thought.
That is...
That's great.
I actually did that.
Was that based on an image that was described by Conan Doyle?
Yeah, so he's walking, you know, that acolyne figure walking past the shade.
I would do that only if it was my figure was not really...
Curtis, you know how you would...
From the side, I have no nose at all.
I mean, you can see it when I'm facing you.
But when you go to the side, I have no profile.
Now, when you picture Sherlock Holmes,
do you picture one of the actors from the films?
No, I picture what I saw in my head when I first read the books.
Who would that look like?
It doesn't look like anybody that is in any of the movies.
Yeah.
John Cusack.
John Cusack, right.
John Cusack?
Yeah.
When that Sherlock Holmes movie came out with Robert Downey Jr.,
I was amazed to see a sequence in that movie
that I had written into a script for the Heat Vision and Jack movie as a joke,
which is the idea that if you can get so intelligent
that you can know how to beat somebody up.
Oh, yeah.
And I was like, that was the joke in the Heat Vision and Jack movie
is that he would get super intelligent
and then he'd be like, you know, describing with diagrams
the way that he would punch people.
And it's like, and then they did it for real
and they made a lot of money.
Yeah.
Nobody cared.
Nobody laughed.
Everyone just went, here's my money.
I love that he's so smart, he can beat you up.
Oh, man.
Yeah.
I was introduced to Revenge of the Nerds as a camp counselor.
I had to chaperone a bus of a bunch of kids
going to compete in a soccer game,
the sports competition,
even though I wasn't a sports counselor.
And the most jockey, most handsome counselor was like,
I got to show you guys this movie
because we got to watch movies on the buses.
So this other counselor played Revenge of the Nerds
and it was such a crisis of self
as an uncomfortable teenager,
all these jocks laughing at it.
And the entire time I was like, what did you explain to me?
Is it funny?
Is it funny because you're laughing at them?
Or you would feel nerdy inside?
Or what's happening?
It was just a strange...
I remember that too.
All the kids were kind of laughing.
They weren't nerds, but they loved that movie.
The funny thing is, over the years,
I get approached by people all the time.
Guys on the street will come up to me
and they are clearly jocks.
I mean, they've got no neck.
They've got buzz cuts and all this
and the muscles and everything.
I mean, they're ridiculous.
They look so jocky.
And they will come up to me and say,
Revenge of the Nerds, right?
And I go, yeah, yeah.
That movie meant a lot to me.
That was what my life was.
And I'm saying thank you.
Thank you.
It's very nice of you.
And inside I'm going, fuck you.
You beat up people like me.
But then I started thinking over time,
I was going, you know what?
Even within the jock world, there's a pecking order.
And it's possible that the guy that I'm talking to
was the guy who they called Tiny.
That's the thing.
I remember doing stand-up in Michigan
and I was talking to these motorcycle guys.
They were all super intimidating
and I was trying to intimidate me.
And then there was this one guy
and they kept calling him Cage.
They're like, there's Cage.
Hey, Cage, you get the drinks.
And Cage is like, all right.
And then throughout the night,
I was like, Cage was more available to me.
So I was like, so Cage, what's it like
with this motorcycle group?
And he's like, well, they do this.
And they're like, hey, Cage, come on.
And he's like, fine.
And then they started laughing.
And they're like, you don't like being called Cage, do you?
And he's like, no, I don't.
And I was like, why don't you like being called Cage?
It's like badass.
And he's like, Cage is what you call a car.
I can't drive a motorcycle anymore.
I drive a car.
They call cars Cage's because they're free.
Wait, wait, wait.
He thought that because they called him Cage,
he wasn't allowed to drive a motorcycle.
No, no, they were teasing him.
His name wasn't even Cage.
Had he lost a motorcycle license?
Yeah, something had happened.
And he couldn't drive the motorcycle.
And so they were calling him the equivalent
of calling him lefty because he lost his right hand.
He should have taken himself so seriously.
The point being that they're...
No, you're right.
That's the same thing.
It's very rare for a cool jock to actually feel cool,
all the people that we think feel cool.
Or it's all a continuum in that the point is
that everywhere you go, there is no such thing.
That's why the nerd movement, eventually,
the nerd movement, once we started,
gave a name to feeling like the other.
It was only a matter of time before that would be mainstream
because everyone feels like the other.
There's no one that you've talked to.
You go to your 20-year high school reunion.
Nobody is self-identifies as normal.
Nobody...
No.
That's true.
There's a bunch of people that you thought picked on you
and that were all represented the normal people.
And within them, they were chewing each other to pieces,
which is what we learned from Molly Ringwald
and Breakfast Club.
It's hard to be...
There's also a pride in what...
I guess in the nerd community is that it does worship intelligence.
It worships knowledge, information.
It worships efficacy, yeah.
And it's obsession.
It's obsession.
You acquire...
Even if you're not a PhD,
you've acquired vast amounts of knowledge
about whatever you are interested in.
About at least one specific thing.
When you were saying something about the...
What's the comic book guy doing when you've got PhDs?
Well, the comic book guy, if you get him into a room with a PhD,
is going to be able to whoop the PhD on comic book information.
So that makes that person intelligent in that way.
And that's...
Everybody's got their thing,
and when nerds become obsessive about something,
they become brilliant.
Have you ever played any...
Should I stop talking a while?
Am I still talking?
Curtis, have you ever played any role-playing games?
It is.
You ask such interesting questions.
She doesn't mean sexually.
She means like D&D.
I'm not sure now.
Have you ever broken in as a sexy burglar?
Every question she's asked me,
I've had to have a follow-up,
because I'm not sure how to answer them.
Role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons?
No.
Well, you're gonna...
You're about to right now.
You're about to play a game called Shadow Run.
Okay.
Alright, so Spencer is our Game Master.
Can I just ask, so earlier when you said,
do I have a heart out?
You said no.
And I said no.
I remember that.
If I had said yes,
then I wouldn't have had this heart out.
You were answering this question, yeah.
Okay.
You would be gone right now.
I'd be home by now.
I like that you thought I just asked you if you role-play.
Curtis, do you role-play?
You said, do you play role-playing games?
Also, you asked him if he had sex with women.
Yeah, that's right.
I have put myself into this.
So you have asked a couple of questionable questions.
That's true.
But you've been talking.
Wait a minute.
You know what?
If this means I have to read something,
you may be out of luck, pal.
Oh, well, yeah.
Oh, no, I can probably read this.
Well, you need like glasses or...
I mean, I never know what's going on in these pages.
Alright.
You can fake it.
I don't know if I can fake it.
I may have to have somebody get my glasses from the other room.
Oh, that's easy.
Can you do that?
Can you have somebody do that?
I'll find them.
They're in my coat.
They're in his coat.
Is there anything else in your coat I should know about
before I go through your coat?
No, and there better not be anything in my coat
when I put it on later.
I'm not gross.
See, this coat is called children's porn, so...
Wait a minute.
Not porn of children, but porn that's owned by children.
Porn that children would make if they...
If you said, hey, make a porn movie.
It's like a crayon and a donut.
And they just go on a donut slide together.
New zine idea.
Thank you.
Okay, so...
It's just...
This is...
Your character has been handed to you.
It's a lot of...
It's a lot of little scrawly writing,
little statistics and things.
They won't come into play unless you're asked.
Essentially what it is, is it's improvised storytelling
with Spencer is the one that's in control
of anything that happens,
because he's the game master.
So he's telling us what's happening,
but each of us is a character.
There's no high pressure to it,
because it's kind of turn-based.
You're not like...
That's taped.
So he's letting us know what's going on,
and then there's a point where we can do something.
You can say, oh, I walk up the street,
or I go over to the vending machine,
and I punch it, or whatever you want to do.
And then Spencer, who's the referee
and who understands the rules to the game,
he might say to you, what's your agility?
And it's okay that it takes a half hour for you to go.
It's three, because you find it somewhere on the sheet,
and you go, it's three.
And that's basically how it goes.
Your agility.
That's an example, yeah.
That's the question that's often asked me
that I never have the answer to immediately.
So in brief, like broad strokes, you're playing...
You mean attribute.
Your attribute.
You said agility, but you meant attribute.
Well, I was using...
I was riffing an example, yes, of an attribute.
Agility, for instance.
Yes, I was...
I'm not stupid.
I was looking for...
I'm sorry, but I was looking for agility,
the list of possible things for agility,
and there's no agility.
There's attributes.
There's attributes, and then one of the attributes is agility.
I was just...
As an example.
The second attribute down is agility.
Oh, agility, yeah.
I've never thought of...
Agility as an attribute?
Agility as an attribute.
Never mind.
Okay.
All right, so Spencer, do you want to briefly fill Curtis in
on what his character is for the evening?
Your character is a doctor.
He has a gun.
He could heal people.
Did you say he has a gun?
Yeah, like...
Okay.
Like a doctor.
Stupid me.
I'm just...
I'm sorry.
You guys are criminals.
He has a gun.
Thou might do some harm.
Right, exactly.
Okay.
Yeah, you guys are criminals.
You do missions for, you know, criminal employers.
Oh, so not a medical doctor.
He's...
He's like a doctor...
Like doctor...
Doctor...
Evil.
It's like bull.
You're like a street doctor.
You work with criminals, and when criminals need medical help,
you're the one that comes and passes them.
Oh, I'm the guy.
Oh, I'm that guy.
You're like a mob doctor.
Okay, I'm the mob doctor.
And it's the future.
We're kind of like the A-team.
It's the future.
This is like 70 years in the future or so,
and we're kind of like the A-team.
We're a bunch of like...
Okay.
You know, we're specialists in certain ways.
Dan's very strong.
Aaron's very charming and charismatic
and can talk away in and out of situations.
I'm a magic user, so I can cast spells and shit like that.
So right now, we're looking for a guy named Baldwin Brown,
if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah.
And we're trying to capture this guy
and bring him back to our contact.
So, Spencer, if you would, why don't you give us the brief...
How do you do this?
And catch us up to date, please.
All right.
Last time on Shadowrun.
Our heroes were in the warehouse looking for Baldwin Brown,
but he was nowhere to be found.
So together, our heroes tased a bunch of junkies
and then slapped them away and then asked them questions
and then shoved RFID tags into their stomachs.
Eve sent off a, you know, hawk spirit to find Baldwin,
but he would not return in some time.
Together, the heroes gathered up the illicit merchandise
and headed off towards the neutral drop zone.
That's all.
All clear.
Pretty...
Thank you, Spencer.
Yep.
So pretty cut and dry there.
Did we...
I can't remember, did we...
We took a truck, right?
The ladies are driving.
You're in a truck.
The fellas are in the back.
The quarter guards are driving.
Yeah.
And we're meeting up with our Johnson.
Okay.
And Curtis's character, the doctor,
we haven't encountered him yet, right?
Oh, he's been there.
Oh, so you happen to have him.
So we don't have horticard.
And so I'm in the back of the truck with you,
Jim Nightblade, who is Dan.
And Dr...
Dr. Friend.
Dr. Friend, up in the front maybe with Mercy, right?
Wherever he wants to be, man.
Well, which is it?
What part of the truck do you want to be in the back of the semi?
Like...
No, I want to be shotgun.
Okay.
You're shotgun.
I mean, it seems appropriate.
What's your agility?
My agility is four.
All right.
Just checking.
That's good.
That's good time.
All right.
So we're...
And that's four out of ten?
I think it maxed out like 15 or something.
Oh, 15.
Yeah.
We're new at...
I should be more than four then.
But anyway.
We're just starting out.
It's your game.
No, you're a troll also.
You're not like a human.
You're a troll.
Of course.
I should have mentioned that.
A Dr. Gangster troll.
Yeah.
Okay.
It sounds like a Curtis Armstrong part, actually.
All right.
Through my comm link, we all have a little...
We can all communicate to each other through comm links.
I say to Mercy.
Mercy, where are we headed?
We're heading to...
We're going to the Johnson, right?
Yeah.
Sweet.
We're going to the Johnson.
I still have this photograph of Brian.
Baldwin.
Of Baldwin standing in front of a bathroom.
So I'm looking at that.
We're headed to the Johnson.
I don't like any of it.
You've been a problem this whole time, friend.
I can't go against my training.
Okay, friend.
I've been trying to help as much as I can, but I have to remember I am a doctor.
All right.
Respect your integrity.
How long does it take?
It's not integrity.
I've sold myself.
I've sold myself to you people.
And if it wasn't for him knowing what he knows, I'd walk away from all of this.
Hey, Nightblade.
Yeah, what the fuck's going on, Nightblade?
What do you got in this guy?
What are you holding over his head?
What are you talking about?
We're a crew, Nightblade.
I don't want any blackmail happening behind our backs.
This has got to be about trust.
It's not about blackmail.
It's about friendship and trust.
Something you guys wouldn't know about.
What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
Ask a friend.
All right, doctor.
Why don't you patch up your relationship while we get to the Johnson?
Listen, doctor, I'll tell you one thing right now.
Life on the sprawl is all about secrets.
It's all about selling yourself.
If we had our way, we wouldn't be committing crimes for a living, believe me.
You know, I could always tell, you're different from them.
You are.
You don't have to be here.
I don't want...
You could do better than this.
I'm a magic elf that is trained to use magic by Native Americans.
Oh, come on, man.
I'm a girl.
Magic female elf.
Woman, for God's sake.
You're more than that.
What am I supposed to do?
Just go back and hide in the woods and do what?
I got to make a living somehow.
Shh, they're coming.
Doctor, doctor, who's coming?
Who's coming?
Doctor, who's coming?
Pull over the car!
Can we pull over the car?
Yeah, horticard.
I'm not driving.
You're going to have to pull over the car.
Stop.
Horticard does that.
Horticard's driving.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Okay, okay.
Sorry.
Hey, doctor, real quick.
Yeah.
I'm not going to forget what you said.
We'll have to talk later.
Okay.
We can all hear you.
I pulled over the car so you could talk privately, but I guess it doesn't matter.
Skip back on the road.
Okay, let's put it.
You just had us pull over.
I know.
I'm flustered.
We'd get there faster if we didn't keep pulling over.
I'll just say that.
Well, he said they're coming.
Who's coming?
I guess it doesn't make sense that I pulled over if someone's coming.
They're coming.
Let's meet them.
They seem nice.
Okay, let's put a pin in this.
I don't want to invalidate your feelings.
I will tell you the thing that I know about this guy that I have over him.
He thinks they're coming a lot, even when they're not.
All right.
That's right.
What's our ETA to the Johnson hookup?
Yeah, what's our ETA to the Johnson hookup?
Oh, once we get back on the road, it'll just be a couple minutes.
Okay.
Let's drive again.
Horticard?
Okay.
No, we were driving.
You just had us pull out.
I know.
Are they coming again?
No, it's the problem is that my thing about them coming, I lost a patient because I was
thinking about them coming.
All right, let's pull over.
Can we just get to the thing?
Can we just have one?
Dr. Frenn has said nothing for hours, and he waits until a crucial moment to bring up
past issues, and I feel like we should deal with this.
Okay, here we are.
We're pulling up in front of the Johnson.
So you enter the parking lot, which is the location of the neutral drop zone.
It's a fenced off affair squished between a number of low buildings.
The fence is covered in chains, but it stands wide open.
Cars and trucks lined the street outside the parking lot and broken damaged buildings
lined the sky.
I don't know.
Some of the buildings are lit up by orange light.
No one is in the lot that you can see, but it's where you're supposed to meet.
I've got a bad feeling about this.
Wait, are you doing your moonlighting impression?
What is that?
I've got a bad feeling about this.
Come out to the coast and have a few laughs.
Curtis, just so you know, Dan's character is strongly influenced by Bruce Willis.
Post moonlighting, Bruce Willis.
Post moonlighting, okay.
It's nighttime, right Spencer?
Oh yeah, okay.
I want to draw my weapon and get ready before I...
What?
Okay, sorry.
Just Jim, you always lead with force and we don't know what's going on.
I'm getting out of a truck in an abandoned, vacant lot that we've been summoned to
that's loaded with valuable goods.
Sorry, I thought I was talking to the guy who beat up a bunch of people for no reason previously.
One man's no reason as another man's precaution.
Yes, exactly.
Yes, precisely.
Thank you.
That is what I was saying.
So I'm just saying I'm drawing my Aries predator or whatever it is.
Because I'm going to get out of the trailer now, I've been in the back of a truck like garbage.
Alright, you hop out of the trailer in the parking lot, the location of the neutral drop zone.
You don't see anything around other than tons of cars and trucks that are just in the lot parked.
They lie still.
Is anyone playing horticard?
No, I am.
He's the guy we need to horticard. I want to know if there's people in any of these cars and trucks.
Oh, I detect a person.
Where?
There. He points in the direction of a truck.
I'm going to put a spell on him. I'm going to cast a spell on him.
Alright, what do you want to cast?
He's now unable to do anything and we can take our time to figure out what our next move is.
I can do that because I have a level 5 spell casting.
And then these are your spells.
Oh, yeah. Oh, these are the spells.
You don't have spell making up.
He has level 3 UCB spell.
Oh, these are my things.
Alright, there I've created a dome or wall of magical energy.
We have to think fast. I don't know how long I can hold it.
Doctor, what is the wall between us and what?
It's between us and him, whatever he is.
Alright, I run up to the hotel, the hotel.
I run up to the wall and I use my perception to see if the person with their motives are.
Who is he? What is he? What are his motives?
This guy's a really good doctor.
He's a very good doctor.
You don't see anything beyond the wall other than a truck, like a semi-truck.
Oh, okay.
I'm so happy.
Where's the truck that the guy's in? I'll go check it out.
Horticard points at it.
I walk in that direction.
As you walk, you see lights from the trucks flick on, flanking your path,
lighting up the entire lot.
The truck you're walking towards, the door clicks open and you see a dapper figure emerge.
It's a khaki suit wearing orc with a data jack in the side of his head and a monocle.
He's holding a metal briefcase.
Oh, no.
Mercy, go up there and do your thing.
Can I sprint up to where Jim is?
Alright, I'm going to use negotiation.
Alright.
Hey, handsome.
It's good to finally meet you in person.
It is great to meet you too.
I assume that you are this Johnson we're all talking about.
Oh, yeah. That's why we're all here, isn't it?
Yeah, it sure is.
Did you like my friend's wall that he made? That dome?
I got to say, it's a bit alarming.
Well, the thing that our crew does, some crews just go around and they just talk to people,
but we show what we can do.
He's a doctor with a rich past.
Yeah, and he may also be going through a very messy divorce.
We're not sure.
But so, we do not have...
Baldwin Brown.
Yeah, we do not have old BB.
And I was wondering if maybe we could have a little more time.
I do have a very good lead.
Well, what's the lead?
Well, I produce the picture.
Looks like it was just taken from his Instagram account.
Yes, here's the thing.
A lot of people wouldn't look at this.
And as we all know, there are only so many bathrooms in the city.
I think that we should have a little bit more time.
And if you need some more convincing,
why don't I show you what my old friend, Dr. Friend, can do spell-wise?
Take it away, Dr. Friend!
Agony! Agony spell!
Jesus!
Agony!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Agony induces terrible pain!
Same team!
In the target!
Until it is deactivated!
Jesus Christ!
Somebody! Somebody!
Oh my God!
The spell! There's something wrong!
It's affecting me!
He has superpowers!
I never suspected!
I use...
And the same will happen to you all if you don't return with Baldwin Brown.
Okay, that went better. He took that better than I thought he would.
Hey listen, we got a truckload of BTL chips.
That was part of the deal.
It was 1500 a piece or something.
No, it was not that.
It was 1000 a piece.
1000 a piece, we got a truckload, so...
Yeah, at least pony up for the BTLs.
We almost got killed trying to get...
Alright, alright. How many boxes you got?
A million.
I'll just verify that.
He walks over to the back of the truck and starts counting.
It's like, why this? This is only 25.
I mean, that's a lot.
That's all that was there, we got them all.
We got 100% of their BTL chips.
Yeah, a million probably wouldn't fit in the truck anyway.
I don't know what I was thinking.
You're asking the wrong guy.
Also, we have, using negotiation and intimidation,
you really should give us 1100 a box,
because there are a lot of people who want these chips.
Well, and it's really for my street clinics.
And obviously we have no idea what he's going to do.
I mean, you have to realize, I may be working with these people,
but I still care about people who have no safety net.
And they come to my clinics on the street for help,
and these 25 boxes will just be enough to make the difference.
I'm not sure what is being expected of you.
It's being explained to you that we have a huge humanitarian incentive.
We need a little bit more money.
Why don't we get 1100 a box and we'll go and we'll get Mr. Brian.
Alright, that sounds cool.
Alright, thank you.
Do you know anything more about where he is?
Hey, Mercy, you guys are all forgetting that I have my eagle spirit
scouting the neighborhood right now.
No, I remember, I remember. Do you know anything?
I'm just saying, at any moment, I go into a Native American...
Jeff, as your friend, just take a...
Salish?
I go into a shamanic trance and I try to communicate with my eagle spirit
who's flying over the city.
Do you see Balvin Brown anywhere?
No, it'll take me like 20, 30 minutes.
Okay, cool.
So spiritual.
I shoot a ray of energy into the air that spells TTYL.
See ya.
So the Mr. Johnson, he pulls a cred stick out of his briefcase
and he's like, this is, what's 25 times 11?
This is that many.
That many new yens for your troubles.
Times 100, do you mean?
Yep.
Anybody?
25 times 100 is 2,500.
Don't worry about it, I'll do the math later.
All right.
He hands you the cred stick.
250, thank you.
The cred stick?
Yeah, that's like a credit card, basically.
It stores your money.
And the future has gotten longer and thinner?
Okay, sorry.
What is your problem with the credit, cred stick concept?
You know, it's more reflection of me.
No.
It should be smaller.
It shouldn't be, in the future, we shouldn't be advancing to bigger.
We should be shrinking.
Thank you for that.
Right, but what if the stick does more?
What if the stick is the whole thing?
I mean, where are you going to put the stick when you go out?
Right.
You have to have a special pocket.
Exactly.
Oh, maybe that's why they did it.
The stick is pretty small.
It's not like a giant stick.
No, I know.
A memory stick.
No, I got it.
I'm sorry.
I can't, Curtis, this is Aaron talking.
I have a hard time remembering the name for the cell phone and the money ying ying.
Yeah.
Okay.
New yin.
Yeah.
See.
All right.
You hear the cry of sirens.
They're close.
Too close.
It's the cops.
Jackson's like, what the hell?
They must have bugged the merchandise.
Oh, shit.
What are we going to do?
Too late.
We got to take the credit sticks and run everybody.
Yeah.
We'll be back.
Son of bitches.
They run.
Sorry.
He's just used sons of bitches.
Go ahead.
Wait, what?
Are you not satisfied?
Oh, it sounded like you guys were running away.
Well, we are running away, but you can run too.
Oh, yeah.
We're not doing anything wrong to you, right?
I got a whole truckload of goods to move immediately.
It's a situation on my hands.
You want to pay us to help you with that situation?
Uh-huh.
No.
Nightblade, are you high?
He's not part of our group.
He's a customer.
He's the guy that we're going to go off and do the job, and he's dissatisfied.
We're walking away, and he's calling us assholes.
What?
You worked at Radio Shack, and the manager had a problem.
Would you leave your family to burn?
I made a lot of sense.
Hortegaard.
Hortegaard, is there a dark area nearby where we can hide where the cops don't find us?
I don't know.
Probably, just statistically.
Eve, can you ask for an eagle?
Can I cast invisibility over all of us and make us and the truck disappear?
Not the truck.
You could do it on people, but it's going to take some drains.
I could also use phantasm and create some other thing to distract the cops.
I could make some other thing happen far away that makes the cops go somewhere else to buy us some time.
You could?
Oh.
All right.
So how close are the cops?
Oh, they're going to be here in a couple minutes.
A couple minutes.
Jonathan, do you want out of this problem?
Maybe, but only for very cheap.
Name a price?
700.
700 for each person that risks their life?
No.
Just to solve the situation.
All right, see you.
What kind of race?
Let's go.
The guy's like, you sons of bitches.
Yeah, but you got no right to say that anymore.
You had an opportunity.
Like, tell your accountant, you know, see you.
I go towards the street where the cops are coming.
I can hear where the street where they're going to be coming from, right?
Right.
And I say, everybody, get in the truck, get ready to get the hell out of here.
I'm going to create a phantasm to scare the hell out of these cops.
When it starts, we have to get the hell out of here and go the other direction.
Jonathan, you want to come with us or do you want out?
Well, I need that truck.
I mean.
Yes, we'll all get in the truck together with the merchandise and we'll go somewhere else and get away from these cops.
I'll drive the truck.
Sounds good.
All right.
Jonathan likes it.
I can just say that they're medical supplies if the police stop me.
All right.
You guys, everybody in the truck, I'm going to try this.
We only got one shot at this, you guys.
And also our show is about to be over, so this has to count.
All right.
All right, let's go.
The truck rolls out of the parking lot.
Okay.
I go out into the streets and I touch my red feather earring and I summon all the magic of my training,
my elven upbringing, and my Native American tribes.
And I summon a spirit.
I summon a 20-foot-tall flaming gorilla to stand in the middle of the streets.
And just start freaking out in front of the cop cars.
Not only is it a giant gorilla, it's also angry.
No.
This is a flaming gorilla that means business.
But it's only a phantasm.
It can't really hurt him.
It's just going to scare these cops.
And I cast it as a level five.
All right, that's a little fun.
Level five flaming gorilla, middle of the road, freaking out.
All right.
It appears to me I could have done the barrier here.
But I feel like I've already done it and now it's not going to work.
You kind of shot your what?
You shot your what?
I shot it.
This would be the perfect time for it.
If I'd known this is where we were going, I would have waited on the barrier for now.
We should have given you the script.
We're right at it.
This is the problem.
Hey, don't get the script.
You don't know what to do.
Doctor, remember before when you told me that I'm bigger than this and there's more to me than this?
Yes.
I think that we're all learning something today and that you're going to use to harness this ability
and know when to time it better next time.
And to use it for good.
Yes.
Level five gorilla.
A gorilla sprouts up.
He's 20 feet tall.
He's beating his chest, which is on fire.
He's mean in business.
And you guys scoot off into the night.
Scoot.
If there's any cops following you, they make no indication.
20 minutes later, your, your eagle friend goes, hey, I found Baldwin.
You're not going to like it though.
Why not?
He's in a business building.
I mean, he's in a building.
God damn it.
That's our kryptonite.
Are you saying there's a roof and walls and there's some sort of organization inside that makes money?
Yeah.
It's a telepathic link.
You guys, it looks like we're going to have to get Baldwin.
Which, which business?
Eagle.
Oh, I don't, I don't know.
So you, you truly thought we weren't going to like that he was in a business?
Oh, wait, no, I, you're not going to like the defense mechanisms around the business.
Oh, what are they?
Oh, they got magical barriers.
Sounds like me.
That sounds like a case for the magical barrier doctor to come in.
Cliff Hanger.
Wait a minute.
Curtis Armstrong will be back next week to reprise his role as the, as the astraly projecting doctor.
Thank you all for coming.
Erin Mcgathy.
Thank you.
Erin Mcgathy Spencer Crittenden.
I'm Jeff Davis.
Thank you everyone here at Meltdown Comics.
Your mayor everybody, Mr. Dan Harmon.
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show.